The other thing would be if a completely superior design
for a new sort of state independent monetary system emerged,
but it's really hard to even imagine how that would come to emerge.
And there's good reasons to think that Bitcoin, uh,
the Condit as of its launch were extremely favorable and hard to replicate.
Can you speak to some of those conditions? Why it's a unique, uh, timing wise,
uh, moment for Bitcoin to emerge?
Yeah, so obviously Bitcoin was born in the depths of the financial crisis,
which gives it a nice, nice historical element,
but that was kind of a coincidence. Honestly,
we know that Satoshi had been working on it earlier in back or in 2017.
Um, the really special thing about Bitcoin was that it was launched anonymously
by an entity that did not seek any glory or credit for what they did and
apparently never monetized it at all.
So they never really moved any of their coins.
Satoshi sent one test transaction to, uh,
Hal who's one of the earliest Bitcoiners, aside from that, as far as we know,
Satoshi never spent any of their coins.
So you have this wonderful Promethian quality whereby it's almost self
sacrificial. I mean,
it's like this borderline godlike figure in terms of their restraint
finds this monetary technology and releases it to the world and pays the price.
They never took advantage of their filthy Lu, you know, they never,
they never recognize any of the $50 billion that they made from Bitcoin. Right.
Uh, and Satoshi also didn't assign themselves any privileged access,
uh, to the coins. You know, Satoshi could have just written in the code.
I own 10% of the coins, but they didn't, they just mined in the open,
free market competition. Like everyone else.
It's just that Satoshi is a early minor to support the network,
accumulate a lot of coins for sure,
but they didn't have any privilege special access.
So that's one thing that's extremely special about the launch is that we had a
founder that was truly committed to the monetary protocol and didn't seek either
recognition or financial spoils, and then also left, you know,
if Satoshi left in 20 10, 20 11, and hasn't really been heard from,
since it's a.
Very George Washington move gangster move where he didn't want power and once
he got power, he let go of it. Precisely. That was a key actually move.
That was, that was, uh,
probably one of the most important moves at the finding of this country.
That's right. George Washington could have been a king, uh,
probably if he'd won and Satoshi could have been, uh, Jerome Powell,
if he'd wanted and Satoshi could have held on to power indefinitely,
but chose to leave.
The other thing is the Bitcoin circulated for a long period of time from
January, 2009 to about July,
2010 without really having a financial value.
So there weren't really any marketplaces, it didn't have a value.
And so that gave it this really great distribution, you know,
among a broad set of stakeholders.
And there were no venture funds or hedge funds, you know,
trying to aggressively buy up all the supply back then.
Now when you have new cryptocurrencies launched,
they're like aggressively pre mind and some gigantic Silicon valley venture
fund is gonna own 30% of it.
And so it's sort of impossible to conceive of how that could become a global
money because how could, you know,
a Silicon valley, uh, investment firm own 30% of the money supply.
That doesn't make sense. That's just so oligarchical, right?
It's unbelievable. So Bitcoin by contracts is a very bottom up thing.
It was the early enthusiasts people that were, you know,
really, um, excited about the technology.
They're the ones that obtained those early coins.
And so there was a real element of fairness and just an organic nature to its
launch, which would be incredibly hard to recapture today.
Let's say Satoshi came back and they said, okay,
I made by a coin 2.0, I'm gonna release it.
There'd be the most aggressive land grab ever by, you know,
gigantic pools of capital to sort of get favorable allocations
of the new system, right?
Can, uh, Satoshi with Bitcoin 2.0, build in, uh,
a resistance mechanism or venture mechanism for the land grab.
It would be hard to, because, you know, if you have capital and resources,
I mean, if it was a proof of work chain,
you'd just have people that would invest a ton of money in mining, for instance.
But most new blockchains cryptocurrencies are just sold basically they're,
you know, issued in token offerings kind of thing. So.
So it's hard to enforce through the protocol,
the exist centralization of control.
Yeah, power. It'd be challenging too. And people have tried to do airdrops,
you know, where they, you know,
distribute coins to a large number of people basically doesn't work.
Most people don't care about the airdrop.
So it's hard to have an equitable distribution.
I think conditions of Bitcoin's launch were so lucky and favorable
that they're very unlikely to be replicated.
So I do think it's gonna be real challenge to ever have a new competitor that's
as decentralized, as leaderless,
as dispersed sort of distributed as Bitcoin is, has its credibility.
I don't know how you could overrule it on those important features.